Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2023-10-23T19:15:26-07:00

====== ProgressionDesignBrainstormFromGym ======
Created Monday 23 October 2023

I need
-More Spell
-Progression math

A slow exponential growth ((x^2)/2) sounds like a good starting point for enemy scaling. Amount might be good to scale too, maybe in a linear/log way (linear growth with limit), but I think damage will be constant. I think this would make health economies easier to plan out as a player. FIREBALL cooldown also scales.

The hard part is spell selection and spell effect growth. Also keep in mind that spell selection is an input, so there needs to be some degree of automation to reduce player fatigue.

This might be good to put on a loopy diagram ngl.

Now, you dont need a billion spells. Maybe make, like, 4. Zap and Top are 2 already. Twist of Fate (long cooldown, mid damage, small speed, single target, big heal) can be one. Ice spike (small cooldown, mid damage, big speed, line, big damage) can be another. That's good spread for a basic prototype, I think.

So how should the player scale as time passes?
Maybe spell modifiers? Gems that change the stat of a spell? nah
Maybe spell alternates? New versions of the same spell that do similar things? That's more spells tho
Factorio scales the player with logistics and production speed. Production speed is more damage and CD. What about logistics?
Maybe HEALTH is logistics? Like, a throughput buffer? If we can somehow use  health damage as a way of converting a non-CD resource (damage?) into CD, as long as health is managed with healing spells it won't matter ever.

Now, there is no such thing as "excess damage". But there IS excess CD. Spells can only cooldown so much while waiting for the FIREBALL. We can use extra CD generated by other spells to cast low-cd self damage spells with good damage and great CD, and then use the CD gains to cast healing spells. Healing spell can have negative CD bonus and no damage, so it "consumes" excess damage to restore the health buffer.
The only thing I should be careful with at first is making sure the health damage spell isn't as spammable as, say, zap. I can tool the rest later.

So what is player progression exactly?
Well, "production" is more damage and CD. More "logisitcs" is health capacity and regen.

Maybe, to keep it simple, the player can pick between a Damage Multiplier, a CD Multiplier, a Health Capacity Multiplier, and a Health Regen Multiplier. These can grow linearly as selected, maybe? I can toy with this too.

Yes, the math I can play with as desired. It's the actual features I need to finish now.

That, and sound and some VFX and juice and the like. But that comes later too.

I can put the player buffs and their scaling functions in data assets if I want!

Okay, what are the action items from this?
[ ] Twist of Fate spell
[ ] Ice Spike spell
[ ] Post-Level Buff Choosing
[ ] Global Buffs for Damage, CD, Health Cap, and Health Regen
